                            MOPO:Model-basedOfﬂinePolicyOptimization
                                          ∗1                 *1           1               1            1
                                 Tianhe Yu ,GarrettThomas ,LantaoYu ,StefanoErmon ,JamesZou ,
                                                            2              1             1
                                               Sergey Levine , Chelsea Finn† , Tengyu Ma†
                                                                      1             2
                                                    Stanford University , UC Berkeley
                                                {tianheyu,gwthomas}@cs.stanford.edu
                                                                Abstract
                                Ofﬂine reinforcement learning (RL) refers to the problem of learning policies
                                entirely from a large batch of previously collected data. This problem setting offers
                                the promise of utilizing such datasets to acquire policies without any costly or
                                dangerous active exploration. However, it is also challenging, due to the distribu-
                                tional shift between the ofﬂine training data and those states visited by the learned
                                policy. Despite signiﬁcant recent progress, the most successful prior methods are
                                model-free and constrain the policy to the support of data, precluding generaliza-
                                tion to unseen states. In this paper, we ﬁrst observe that an existing model-based
                                RLalgorithm already produces signiﬁcant gains in the ofﬂine setting compared to
                                model-free approaches. However, standard model-based RL methods, designed
                                for the online setting, do not provide an explicit mechanism to avoid the ofﬂine
                                setting’s distributional shift issue. Instead, we propose to modify the existing
                                model-based RL methods by applying them with rewards artiﬁcially penalized by
                                the uncertainty of the dynamics. We theoretically show that the algorithm maxi-
                                mizesalowerboundofthepolicy’sreturnunderthetrueMDP.Wealsocharacterize
                                the trade-off between the gain and risk of leaving the support of the batch data.
                                Ouralgorithm, Model-based Ofﬂine Policy Optimization (MOPO), outperforms
                                standard model-based RL algorithms and prior state-of-the-art model-free ofﬂine
                                RLalgorithms on existing ofﬂine RL benchmarks and two challenging continuous
                                control tasks that require generalizing from data collected for a different task.
                        1   Introduction
                        Recent advances in machine learning using deep neural networks have shown signiﬁcant successes in
                        scaling to large realistic datasets, such as ImageNet [13] in computer vision, SQuAD [55] in NLP, and
        arXiv:2005.13239v6  [cs.LG]  22 Nov 2020RoboNet[10] in robot learning. Reinforcement learning (RL) methods, in contrast, struggle to scale
                        to many real-world applications, e.g., autonomous driving [74] and healthcare [22], because they rely
                        oncostly online trial-and-error. However, pre-recorded datasets in domains like these can be large
                        and diverse. Hence, designing RL algorithms that can learn from those diverse, static datasets would
                        both enable more practical RL training in the real world and lead to more effective generalization.
                        While off-policy RL algorithms [43, 27, 20] can in principle utilize previously collected datasets,
                        they perform poorly without online data collection. These failures are generally caused by large
                        extrapolation error when the Q-function is evaluated on out-of-distribution actions [19, 36], which
                        can lead to unstable learning and divergence. Ofﬂine RL methods propose to mitigate bootstrapped
                        error by constraining the learned policy to the behavior policy induced by the dataset [19, 36, 72, 30,
                        49, 52, 58]. While these methods achieve reasonable performances in some settings, their learning is
                        limited to behaviors within the data manifold. Speciﬁcally, these methods estimate error with respect
                        to out-of-distribution actions, but only consider states that lie within the ofﬂine dataset and do not
                           ∗equal contribution. † equal advising. Orders randomized.
                        34th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2020), Vancouver, Canada.
                            consider those that are out-of-distribution. We argue that it is important for an ofﬂine RL algorithm
                            to be equipped with the ability to leave the data support to learn a better policy for two reasons: (1)
                            the provided batch dataset is usually sub-optimal in terms of both the states and actions covered by
                            the dataset, and (2) the target task can be different from the tasks performed in the batch data for
                            various reasons, e.g., because data is not available or hard to collect for the target task. Hence, the
                            central question that this work is trying to answer is: can we develop an ofﬂine RL algorithm that
                            generalizes beyond the state and action support of the ofﬂine data?
                            Toapproach this question, we ﬁrst hypothesize
                            that model-based RL methods [64, 12, 42, 38,
                            29,44]makeanaturalchoiceforenablinggener-
                            alization, for a number of reasons. First, model-
                            based RL algorithms effectively receive more
                            supervision, since the model is trained on every
                            transition, even in sparse-reward settings. Sec-  Figure 1: Comparison between vanilla model-based
                            ond, they are trained with supervised learning,   RL(MBPO[29])withorwithoutmodelensemblesand
                            which provides more stable and less noisy gra- vanilla model-free RL (SAC [27]) on two ofﬂine RL
                            dients than bootstrapping. Lastly, uncertainty    tasks: one from the D4RL benchmark [18] and one that
                            estimation techniques, such as bootstrap ensem-   demandsout-of-distribution generalization. We ﬁnd that
                            bles, are well developed for supervised learning  MBPOsubstantially outperforms SAC, providing some
                            methods [40, 35, 60] and are known to perform     evidence that model-based approaches are well-suited
                            poorly for value-based RL methods [72]. All       for batch RL. For experiment details, see Section 5.
                            of these attributes have the potential to improve or control generalization. As a proof-of-concept
                            experiment, we evaluate two state-of-the-art off-policy model-based and model-free algorithms,
                            MBPO[29]andSAC[27],inFigure1. Althoughneithermethodisdesignedforthebatchsetting,
                            we ﬁnd that the model-based method and its variant without ensembles show surprisingly large
                            gains. This ﬁnding corroborates our hypothesis, suggesting that model-based methods are particularly
                            well-suited for the batch setting, motivating their use in this paper.
                            Despite these promising preliminary results, we expect signiﬁcant headroom for improvement.
                            In particular, because ofﬂine model-based algorithms cannot improve the dynamics model using
                            additional experience, we expect that such algorithms require careful use of the model in regions
                            outside of the data support. Quantifying the risk imposed by imperfect dynamics and appropriately
                            trading off that risk with the return is a key ingredient towards building a strong ofﬂine model-based
                            RLalgorithm. To do so, we modify MBPO to incorporate a reward penalty based on an estimate of
                            the model error. Crucially, this estimate is model-dependent, and does not necessarily penalize all
                            out-of-distribution states and actions equally, but rather prescribes penalties based on the estimated
                            magnitude of model error. Further, this estimation is done both on states and actions, allowing
                            generalization to both, in contrast to model-free approaches that only reason about uncertainty with
                            respect to actions.
                            Theprimary contribution of this work is an ofﬂine model-based RL algorithm that optimizes a policy
                            in an uncertainty-penalized MDP, where the reward function is penalized by an estimate of the
                            model’s error. Under this new MDP, we theoretically show that we maximize a lower bound of the
                            return in the true MDP, and ﬁnd the optimal trade-off between the return and the risk. Based on
                            our analysis, we develop a practical method that estimates model error using the predicted variance
                            of a learned model, uses this uncertainty estimate as a reward penalty, and trains a policy using
                            MBPOinthis uncertainty-penalized MDP. We empirically compare this approach, model-based
                            ofﬂine policy optimization (MOPO), to both MBPO and existing state-of-the-art model-free ofﬂine
                            RLalgorithms. Our results suggest that MOPO substantially outperforms these prior methods on the
                            ofﬂine RL benchmark D4RL [18] as well as on ofﬂine RL problems where the agent must generalize
                            to out-of-distribution states in order to succeed.
                            2   Related Work
                            Reinforcement learning algorithms are well-known for their ability to acquire behaviors through
                            online trial-and-error in the environment [3, 65]. However, such online data collection can incur high
                            sample complexity [46, 56, 57], limit the power of generalization to unseen random initialization
                            [9, 76, 4], and pose risks in safety-critical settings [68]. These requirements often make real-world
                            applications of RL less feasible. To overcome some of these challenges, we study the batch ofﬂine
                                                                             2
                             RLsetting [41]. While many off-policy RL algorithms [53, 11, 31, 48, 43, 27, 20, 24, 25] can in
                             principle be applied to a batch ofﬂine setting, they perform poorly in practice [19].
                             Model-freeOfﬂineRL. Manymodel-freebatchRLmethodsaredesignedwithtwomainingredients:
                             (1) constraining the learned policy to be closer to the behavioral policy either explicitly [19, 36,
                             72, 30, 49] or implicitly [52, 58], and (2) applying uncertainty quantiﬁcation techniques, such as
                             ensembles, to stabilize Q-functions [1, 36, 72]. In contrast, our model-based method does not rely on
                             constraining the policy to the behavioral distribution, allowing the policy to potentially beneﬁt from
                             taking actions outside of it. Furthermore, we utilize uncertainty quantiﬁcation to quantify the risk of
                             leaving the behavioral distribution and trade it off with the gains of exploring diverse states.
                             Model-basedOnlineRL.Ourapproachbuildsuponthewealthofpriorworkonmodel-basedonline
                             RLmethodsthatmodelthedynamicsbyGaussianprocesses[12],locallinearmodels[42,38],neural
                             network function approximators [15, 21, 14], and neural video prediction models [16, 32]. Our
                             workis orthogonal to the choice of model. While prior approaches have used these models to select
                             actions using planning [67, 17, 54, 51, 59, 70], we choose to build upon Dyna-style approaches that
                             optimize for a policy [64, 66, 73, 32, 26, 28, 44], speciﬁcally MBPO [29]. See [71] for an empirical
                             evaluation of several model-based RL algorithms. Uncertainty quantiﬁcation, a key ingredient to
                             our approach, is critical to good performance in model-based RL both theoretically [63, 75, 44] and
                             empirically [12, 7, 50, 39, 8], and in optimal control [62, 2, 34]. Unlike these works, we develop and
                             leverage proper uncertainty estimates that particularly suit the ofﬂine setting.
                             Concurrent work by Kidambi et al. [33] also develops an ofﬂine model-based RL algorithm, MOReL.
                             Unlike MOReL,whichconstructs terminating states based on a hard threshold on uncertainty, MOPO
                             uses a soft reward penalty to incorporate uncertainty. In principle, a potential beneﬁt of a soft penalty
                             is that the policy is allowed to take a few risky actions and then return to the conﬁdent area near
                             the behavioral distribution without being terminated. Moreover, while Kidambi et al. [33] compares
                             to model-free approaches, we make the further observation that even a vanilla model-based RL
                             methodoutperforms model-free ones in the ofﬂine setting, opening interesting questions for future
                             investigation. Finally, we evaluate our approach on both standard benchmarks [18] and domains that
                             require out-of-distribution generalization, achieving positive results in both.
                             3    Preliminaries
                             Weconsider the standard Markov decision process (MDP) M = (S,A,T,r,µ0,γ), where S and
                                                                                             0
                             Adenotethestate space and action space respectively, T(s |s,a) the transition dynamics, r(s,a)
                             the reward function, µ0 the initial state distribution, and γ ∈ (0,1) the discount factor. The goal
                             in RL is to optimize a policy π(a|s) that maximizes the expected discounted return η              (π) :=
                                     P                                                          P                            M
                                E [ ∞ γtr(s ,a )]. The value function Vπ(s) := E [                 ∞ γtr(s ,a )|s = s] gives the
                             π,T,µ      t=0       t  t                           M          π,T    t=0       t   t   0
                                   0
                             expected discounted return under π when starting from state s.
                             In the ofﬂine RL problem, the algorithm only has access to a static dataset D            = {(s,a,r,s0)}
                                                                                  B                               env
                             collected by one or a mixture of behavior policies π , and cannot interact further with the environment.
                             Werefer to the distribution from which Denv was sampled as the behavioral distribution.
                             Wealsointroduce the following notation for the derivation in Section 4. In the model-based approach
                                                                b
                             wewillhaveadynamicsmodelT estimatedfromthetransitions in Denv. This estimated dynamics
                                                     c             b                 π
                             deﬁnes a model MDP M = (S,A,T,r,µ0,γ). Let Pb (s) denote the probability of being in state s
                                                                                     T,t
                                                                                                                b       π
                             at time step t if actions are sampled according to π and transitions according to T. Let ρb(s,a) be the
                                                                                                                     PT
                                                                                             b π                        ∞ t π
                             discounted occupancy measure of policy π under dynamics T: ρb(s,a) := π(a|s)               t=0γ Pb (s).
                                                                                                 T                              T,t
                             Note that ρπ, as deﬁned here, is not a properly normalized probability distribution, as it integrates
                                          b
                                         T
                                                                                                           π       ¯
                             to 1/(1 − γ). We will denote (improper) expectations with respect to ρb with E, as in ηc(π) =
                                                                                                           T                  M
                             ¯ π
                             E [r(s,a)].
                               ρb
                                T
                             Wenowsummarizemodel-basedpolicyoptimization (MBPO)[29], which we build on in this work.
                                                                                      b    0
                             MBPOlearns a model of the transition distribution Tθ(s |s,a) parametrized by θ, via supervised
                             learning on the behavorial data Denv. MBPO also learns a model of the reward function in the
                                                                                                        b   0
                             samemanner. During training, MBPO performs k-step rollouts using T (s |s,a) starting from state
                                                                                                         θ
                                                                                 3
                             s ∈ D     , adds the generated data to a separate replay buffer D        , and ﬁnally updates the policy
                                    env                                                          model
                             π(a|s) using data sampled from D        ∪D       . When applied in an online setting, MBPO iteratively
                                                                  env    model
                             collects samples from the environment and uses them to further improve both the model and the
                             policy. In our experiments in Table 1, Table 5.2 and Table 1, we observe that MBPO performs
                             surprisingly well on the ofﬂine RL problem compared to model-free methods. In the next section, we
                             derive MOPO, which builds upon MBPO to further improve performance.
                             4    MOPO:Model-BasedOfﬂinePolicyOptimization
                             Unlike model-free methods, our goal is to design an ofﬂine model-based reinforcement learning
                             algorithm that can take actions that are not strictly within the support of the behavioral distribution.
                             Using a model gives us the potential to do so. However, models will become increasingly inaccurate
                             further from the behavioral distribution, and vanilla model-based policy optimization algorithms
                             mayexploit these regions where the model is inaccurate. This concern is especially important in the
                             ofﬂine setting, where mistakes in the dynamics will not be corrected with additional data collection.
                             For the algorithm to perform reliably, it’s crucial to balance the return and risk: 1. the potential gain
                             in performance by escaping the behavioral distribution and ﬁnding a better policy, and 2. the risk
                             of overﬁtting to the errors of the dynamics at regions far away from the behavioral distribution. To
                             achieve the optimal balance, we ﬁrst bound the return from below by the return of a constructed
                             model MDP penalized by the uncertainty of the dynamics (Section 4.1). Then we maximize the
                             conservative estimation of the return by an off-the-shelf reinforcement learning algorithm, which
                             gives MOPO, a generic model-based off-policy algorithm (Section 4.2). We discuss important
                             practical implementation details in Section 4.3.
                             4.1   Quantifying the uncertainty: from the dynamics to the total return
                             Ourkeyideaistobuild a lower bound for the expected return of a policy π under the true dynamics
                             and then maximize the lower bound over π. A natural estimator for the true return η        (π) is η   (π),
                                                                                                                      M          c
                                                                                                                                M
                             the return under the estimated dynamics. The error of this estimator depends on, potentially in a
                                                            c
                             complexfashion, the error of M, which may compound over time. In this subsection, we characterize
                                                c
                             how the error of M inﬂuences the uncertainty of the total return. We begin by stating a lemma
                             (adapted from [44]) that gives a precise relationship between the performance of a policy under
                                                          b
                             dynamics T and dynamics T. (All proofs are given in Appendix B.)
                                                                               c
                             Lemma4.1(Telescopinglemma). LetM andM betwoMDPswiththesamerewardfunctionr,but
                                                          b                      π                        π   0                 π   0
                             different dynamics T and T respectively. Let Gc(s,a) :=             E     [VM(s )] − 0 E        [VM(s )].
                                                                                 M             0 b                  s ∼T(s,a)
                             Then,                                                            s ∼T(s,a)
                                                                                      ¯     h π        i
                                                            η (π)−η (π)=γ             E      G (s,a)                                (1)
                                                             c         M                       c
                                                             M                            π    M
                                                                                   (s,a)∼ρb
                                                                                          T
                             Asanimmediatecorollary, we have
                                                       ¯    h              π        i       ¯     h               π        i
                                        η (π) =        E     r(s,a)−γG (s,a) ≥              E      r(s,a)−γ|G (s,a)|                (2)
                                         M                                  c                                     c
                                                          π                M                    π                 M
                                                   (s,a)∼ρb                             (s,a)∼ρb
                                                          T                                     T
                                                                                                      b
                             Here and throughout the paper, we view T as the real dynamics and T as the learned dynamics. We
                                                          π
                             observe that the quantity Gc(s,a) plays a key role linking the estimation error of the dynamics and
                                                          M                                         π
                             the estimation error of the return. By deﬁnition, we have that Gc(s,a) measures the difference
                                                                                                    M
                                                c                              π                        c           π
                             between M and M under the test function V            —indeed, if M = M, then Gc(s,a) = 0. By
                                                                                                                    M
                             equation (1), it governs the differences between the performances of π in the two MDPs. If we could
                                         π
                             estimate Gc(s,a) or bound it from above, then we could use the RHS of (1) as an upper bound for
                                         M
                             the estimation error of η   (π). Moreover, equation (2) suggests that a policy that obtains high reward
                                                      M
                                                                                π
                             in the estimated MDP while also minimizing Gc will obtain high reward in the real MDP.
                                                                                M
                                                      π                                                                    π
                             However, computing Gc remains elusive because it depends on the unknown function VM. Leverag-
                                                 π    M                π
                             ing properties of V   , we will replace G    by an upper bound that depends solely on the error of the
                                                 M                      c
                                                                       M
                                                                                 4
                                         b                                                                                  π
                              dynamics T. We ﬁrst note that if F is a set of functions mapping S to R that contains VM, then,
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                 
                                           π                              0                   0           b
                                        |G (s,a)| ≤ sup          E     [f(s )] −     E     [f(s )] =: d (T(s,a),T(s,a)),             (3)
                                           c                                                          F
                                           M           f∈F 0 b                  s0∼T(s,a)        
                                                             s ∼T(s,a)
                              where d    is the integral probability metric (IPM) [47] deﬁned by F. IPMs are quite general and
                                      F
                              contain several other distance measures as special cases [61]. Depending on what we are willing to
                                               π                                           π                               b
                              assume about VM, there are multiple options to bound Gc by some notion of error of T, discussed
                              in greater detail in Appendix A:                             M
                              (i) If F = {f : kfk    ≤1},thend isthetotalvariationdistance. Thus,ifweassumethatthereward
                                                  ∞               F                                              P
                              function is bounded such that ∀(s,a), |r(s,a)| ≤ r         , we have kV πk      ≤ ∞ γtr           = rmax,
                              and hence                                              max                   ∞       t=0     max     1−γ
                                                               π            rmax        b
                                                            |Gc(s,a)| ≤           DTV(T(s,a),T(s,a))                                 (4)
                                                               M            1−γ
                              (ii) If F is the set of 1-Lipschitz function w.r.t. to some distance metric, then d  is the 1-Wasserstein
                                                                                             π                   F
                              distance w.r.t. the same metric. Thus, if we assume that V       is L -Lipschitz with respect to a norm
                                                                                            M      v
                              k·k, it follows that
                                                                 π                    b
                                                              |Gc(s,a)| ≤ LvW1(T(s,a),T(s,a))                                        (5)
                                                                 M
                                                b                                            b                      b
                              Note that when T and T are both deterministic, then W1(T(s,a),T(s,a)) = kT(s,a) − T(s,a)k
                              (here T(s,a) denotes the deterministic output of the model T).
                              Approach(ii) has the advantage that it incorporates the geometry of the state space, but at the cost
                              of an additional assumption which is generally impossible to verify in our setting. The assumption
                              in (i), on the other hand, is extremely mild and typically holds in practice. Therefore we will prefer
                              (i) unless we have some prior knowledge about the MDP. We summarize the assumptions and the
                              inequalities in the options above as follows.
                              Assumption4.2. Assumeascalar c and a function class F such that V π ∈ cF for all π.
                                                                                                          M
                              Asadirect corollary of Assumption 4.2 and equation (3), we have
                                                                  π                  b
                                                               |G (s,a)| ≤ cd (T(s,a),T(s,a)).                                       (6)
                                                                  c              F
                                                                  M
                              Concretely, option (i) above corresponds to c = r       /(1−γ)andF ={f :kfk ≤1},andoption
                                                                                  max                              ∞
                              (ii) corresponds to c = Lv and F = {f : f is 1-Lipschitz}. We will analyze our framework under the
                              assumption that we have access to an oracle uncertainty quantiﬁcation module that provides an upper
                              boundontheerror of the model. In our implementation, we will estimate the error of the dynamics
                              byheuristics (see sections 4.3 and D).
                              Assumption 4.3. Let F be the function class in Assumption 4.2. We say u : S × A → R is an
                                                               b        b                                                  2
                              admissible error estimator for T if d (T(s,a),T(s,a)) ≤ u(s,a) for all s ∈ S,a ∈ A.
                                                                    F
                              Given an admissible error estimator, we deﬁne the uncertainty-penalized reward r˜(s,a) := r(s,a) −
                                                                                                f             b
                              λu(s,a) where λ := γc, and the uncertainty-penalized MDP M = (S,A,T,r˜,µ0,γ). We observe
                                   f
                              that M is conservative in that the return under it bounds from below the true return:
                                                         ¯     h               π        i        ¯
                                           ηM(π) ≥       E      r(s,a)−γ|Gc(s,a)| ≥              E    [r(s,a) − λu(s,a)]
                                                             π                 M                    π
                                                      (s,a)∼ρb                               (s,a)∼ρb
                                                             T                                      T
                                                                                                             (by equation (2) and (6))
                                                         ¯
                                                   ≥     E     [r˜(s, a)] = ηf(π)                                                    (7)
                                                             π               M
                                                      (s,a)∼ρb
                                                             T
                              4.2   Policy optimization on uncertainty-penalized MDPs
                                                                                                                 f
                              Motivated by (7), we optimize the policy on the uncertainty-penalized MDP M in Algorithm 1.
                                 2The deﬁnition here extends the deﬁnition of admissible conﬁdence interval in [63] slightly to the setting of
                              stochastic dynamics.
                                                                                  5
                            Algorithm1FrameworkforModel-basedOfﬂinePolicyOptimization(MOPO)withRewardPenalty
                                                          b
                             Require: Dynamics model T with admissible error estimator u(s,a); constant λ.
                                                                            f                               b
                              1: Deﬁne r˜(s,a) = r(s,a) − λu(s,a). Let M be the MDP with dynamics T and reward r˜.
                                                            f
                              2: Run any RL algorithm on M until convergence to obtain πˆ = argmax ηf(π)
                                                                                                         π M
                            Theoretical Guarantees for MOPO. We will theoretical analyze the algorithm by establishing the
                             optimality of the learned policy πˆ among a family of policies. Let π? be the optimal policy on M
                             and πB be the policy that generates the batch data. Deﬁne  (π) as
                                                                                          u
                                                                                ¯
                                                                  u(π) :=      E π[u(s,a)]                                     (8)
                                                                             (s,a)∼ρb
                                                                                    T
                                                       b
                             Note that  depends on T, but we omit this dependence in the notation for simplicity. We observe
                                        u
                             that  (π) characterizes how erroneous the model is along trajectories induced by π. For example,
                                  u
                                                                     B            b                                           B
                             consider the extreme case when π = π . Because T is learned on the data generated from π , we
                                     b                                               πB
                             expect T to be relatively accurate for those (s,a) ∼ ρb , and thus u(s,a) tends to be small. Thus,
                                             B                                       T
                            weexpect  (π ) to be quite small. On the other end of the spectrum, when π often visits states
                                         u
                                                                                           π                     πB
                             out of the batch data distribution in the real MDP, namely ρ    is different from ρ   , we expect that
                              π                                                            T                     T
                             ρb is even more different from the batch data and therefore the error estimates u(s,a) for those
                              T        π
                            (s,a) ∼ ρ tend to be large. As a consequence, we have that  (π) will be large.
                                       b                                                     u
                                       T
                             For δ ≥ δ     := min  (π), let πδ be the best policy among those incurring model error at most δ:
                                       min         π u
                                                                    πδ := argmax η (π)                                          (9)
                                                                                      M
                                                                           π:u(π)≤δ
                            Themaintheoremprovidesaperformanceguarantee on the policy πˆ produced by MOPO.
                            Theorem4.4. UnderAssumption 4.2 and 4.3, the learned policy πˆ in MOPO (Algorithm 1) satisﬁes
                                                              η (πˆ) ≥ sup{η (π)−2λ (π)}                                      (10)
                                                               M               M            u
                                                                          π
                             In particular, for all δ ≥ δ  ,
                                                        min
                                                                       η (πˆ) ≥ η (πδ)−2λδ                                     (11)
                                                                        M          M
                             Interpretation: One consequence of (10) is that η     (πˆ) ≥ η  (πB)−2λ (πB). This suggests that
                                                                                M          M             u
                             πˆ should perform at least as well as the behavior policy πB, because, as argued before,  (πB) is
                                                                                                                           u
                             expected to be small.
                             Equation (11) tells us that the learned policy πˆ can be as good as any policy π with u(π) ≤ δ, or in
                             other words, any policy that visits states with sufﬁciently small uncertainty as measured by u(s,a).
                            Aspecial case of note is when δ =  (π?), we have η       (πˆ) ≥ η   (π?)−2λ (π?),whichsuggests
                                                                  u                 M         M             u
                             that the suboptimality gap between the learned policy πˆ and the optimal policy π? depends on the
                                       ?                 π?
                             error  (π ). The closer ρ     is to the batch data, the more likely the uncertainty u(s,a) will be
                                    u                    b
                                                         T        ?
                             smaller on those points (s,a) ∼ ρπ . On the other hand, the smaller the uncertainty error of the
                                                                 b
                                                            ?    T
                             dynamics is, the smaller  (π ) is. In the extreme case when u(s,a) = 0 (perfect dynamics and
                                                        u
                             uncertainty quantiﬁcation), we recover the optimal policy π?.
                             Second, by varying the choice of δ to maximize the RHS of Equation (11), we trade off the risk and
                             the return. As δ increases, the return ηM(πδ) increases also, since πδ can be selected from a larger
                             set of policies. However, the risk factor 2λδ increases also. The optimal choice of δ is achieved when
                             the risk balances the gain from exploring policies far from the behavioral distribution. The exact
                             optimal choice of δ may depend on the particular problem. We note δ is only used in the analysis,
                             and our algorithm automatically achieves the optimal balance because Equation (11) holds for any δ.
                             4.3  Practical implementation
                             Nowwedescribeapractical implementation of MOPO motivated by the analysis above. The method
                             is summarized in Algorithm 2 in Appendix C, and largely follows MBPO with a few key exceptions.
                                                                               6
                          FollowingMBPO,wemodelthedynamicsusinganeuralnetworkthatoutputsaGaussiandistribution
                                                        3  b
                          over the next state and reward : T   (s   , r|s , a ) = N(µ (s ,a ),Σ (s ,a )). We learn an
                                                            θ,φ  t+1    t  t         θ  t   t   φ t t
                                                           bi          i   i  N
                          ensemble of N dynamics models {T      =N(µ ,Σ )}i=1,witheachmodeltrainedindependently
                          via maximumlikelihood.            θ,φ        θ   φ
                          Themostimportant distinction from MBPO is that we use uncertainty quantiﬁcation following the
                          analysis above. We aim to design the uncertainty estimator that captures both the epistemic and
                          aleatoric uncertainty of the true dynamics. Bootstrap ensembles have been shown to give a consistent
                          estimate of the population mean in theory [5] and empirically perform well in model-based RL [7].
                          Meanwhile, the learned variance of a Gaussian probabilistic model can theoretically recover the
                          true aleatoric uncertainty when the model is well-speciﬁed. To leverage both, we design our error
                                                  N     i
                          estimator u(s,a) = max     kΣ (s,a)k , the maximum standard deviation of the learned models
                                                  i=1   φ       F
                          in the ensemble. We use the maximum of the ensemble elements rather than the mean to be more
                          conservative and robust. While this estimator lacks theoretical guarantees, we ﬁnd that it is sufﬁciently
                                                                        4
                          accurate to achieve good performance in practice. Hence the practical uncertainty-penalized reward
                          of MOPOiscomputedasr˜(s,a) = rˆ(s,a)−λmax                kΣi(s,a)k whererˆis the mean of the
                                                                           i=1,...,N  φ      F
                                                    b
                          predicted reward output by T.
                          Wetreat the penalty coefﬁcient λ as a user-chosen hyperparameter. Since we do not have a true
                          admissible error estimator, the value of λ prescribed by the theory may not be an optimal choice
                          in practice; it should be larger if our heuristic u(s,a) underestimates the true error and smaller if u
                          substantially overestimates the true error.
                          5   Experiments
                          In our experiments, we aim to study the follow questions: (1) How does MOPO perform on standard
                          ofﬂine RL benchmarks in comparison to prior state-of-the-art approaches? (2) Can MOPO solve
                          tasks that require generalization to out-of-distribution behaviors? (3) How does each component in
                          MOPOaffectperformance?
                          Question (2) is particularly relevant for scenarios in which we have logged interactions with the
                          environment but want to use those data to optimize a policy for a different reward function. To study
                          (2) and challenge methods further, we construct two additional continuous control tasks that demand
                          out-of-distribution generalization, as described in Section 5.2. To answer question (3), we conduct a
                          complete ablation study to analyze the effect of each module in MOPO in Appendix D. For more
                          details on the experimental set-up and hyperparameters, see Appendix G. For more details on the
                          experimental set-up and hyperparameters, see Appendix G. The code is available online5.
                          Wecompareagainstseveral baselines, including the current state-of-the-art model-free ofﬂine RL
                          algorithms. Bootstrapping error accumulation reduction (BEAR) aims to constrain the policy’s
                          actions to lie in the support of the behavioral distribution [36]. This is implemented as a constraint on
                          the average MMD[23]betweenπ(·|s)andagenerativemodelthatapproximatesπB(·|s). Behavior-
                          regularized actor critic (BRAC) is a family of algorithms that operate by penalizing the value function
                          bysomemeasureofdiscrepancy(KLdivergenceorMMD)betweenπ(·|s)andπB(·|s)[72]. BRAC-
                          vuses this penalty both when updating the critic and when updating the actor, while BRAC-p uses
                          this penalty only when updating the actor and does not explicitly penalize the critic.
                          5.1  Evaluation on the D4RL benchmark
                          Toanswerquestion (1), we evaluate our method on a large subset of datasets in the D4RL benchmark
                          [18] based on the MuJoCo simulator [69], including three environments (halfcheetah, hopper, and
                          walker2d) and four dataset types (random, medium, mixed, medium-expert), yielding a total of
                             3If the reward function is known, we do not have to estimate the reward. The theory in Sections 4.1 and 4.2
                          applies to the case where the reward function is known. To extend the theory to an unknown reward function, we
                          can consider the reward as being concatenated onto the state, so that the admissible error estimator bounds the
                                   0                  0
                          error on (s ,r), rather than just s .
                             4Designing prediction conﬁdence intervals with strong theoretical guarantees is challenging and beyond the
                          scope of this work, which focuses on using uncertainty quantiﬁcation properly in ofﬂine RL.
                             5Codeis released at https://github.com/tianheyu927/mopo.
                                                                        7
                              Dataset type   Environment      BC MOPO(ours)              MBPO SAC BEAR BRAC-v
                              random         halfcheetah       2.1      35.4 ± 2.5    30.7 ± 3.9   30.5      25.5       28.1
                              random         hopper            1.6      11.7 ± 0.4     4.5 ± 6.0   11.3       9.5       12.0
                              random         walker2d          9.8      13.6 ± 2.6     8.6 ± 8.1     4.1      6.7        0.5
                              medium         halfcheetah      36.1      42.3 ± 1.6   28.3 ± 22.7    -4.3     38.6       45.5
                              medium         hopper           29.0     28.0 ± 12.4     4.9 ± 3.3     0.8     47.6       32.3
                              medium         walker2d          6.6     17.8 ± 19.3    12.7 ± 7.6     0.9     33.2       81.3
                              mixed          halfcheetah      38.4      53.1 ± 2.0   47.3 ± 12.6    -2.4     36.2       45.9
                              mixed          hopper           11.8     67.5 ± 24.7   49.8 ± 30.4     1.9     10.8        0.9
                              mixed          walker2d         11.3      39.0 ± 9.6   22.2 ± 12.7     3.5     25.3        0.8
                              med-expert     halfcheetah      35.8      63.3 ±38.0     9.7 ± 9.5     1.8     51.7       45.3
                              med-expert     hopper         111.9       23.7 ± 6.0   56.0 ± 34.5     1.6      4.0        0.8
                              med-expert     walker2d          6.4     44.6 ± 12.9     7.6 ± 3.7    -0.1     26.0       66.6
                            Table 1: Results for D4RL datasets. Each number is the normalized score proposed in [18] of the policy at
                            the last iteration of training, averaged over 6 random seeds, ± standard deviation. The scores are undiscounted
                            average returns normalized to roughly lie between 0 and 100, where a score of 0 corresponds to a random policy,
                            and 100 corresponds to an expert. We include the performance of behavior cloning (BC) from the batch data for
                            comparison. Numbers for model-free methods taken from [18], which does not report standard deviation. We
                            omit BRAC-pinthis table for space because BRAC-v obtains higher performance in 10 of these 12 tasks and is
                            only slightly weaker on the other two. We bold the highest mean.
                            12 problem settings. We also perform empirical evaluations on non-MuJoCo environments in
                            Appendix F. The datasets in this benchmark have been generated as follows: random: roll out a
                            randomly initialized policy for 1M steps. medium: partially train a policy using SAC, then roll it out
                            for 1M steps. mixed: train a policy using SAC until a certain (environment-speciﬁc) performance
                            threshold is reached, and take the replay buffer as the batch. medium-expert: combine 1M samples
                            of rollouts from a fully-trained policy with another 1M samples of rollouts from a partially trained
                            policy or a random policy.
                            Results are given in Table 1. MOPO is the strongest by a signiﬁcant margin on all the mixed datasets
                            and most of the medium-expert datasets, while also achieving strong performance on all of the
                            randomdatasets. MOPOperforms less well on the medium datasets. We hypothesize that the lack
                            of action diversity in the medium datasets make it more difﬁcult to learn a model that generalizes
                            well. Fortunately, this setting is one in which model-free methods can perform well, suggesting that
                            model-based and model-free approaches are able to perform well in complementary settings.
                            5.2   Evaluation on tasks requiring out-of-distribution generalization
                            Toanswerquestion (2), we construct two environments halfcheetah-jump and ant-angle where
                            the agent must solve a task that is different from the purpose of the behavioral policy. The trajectories
                            of the batch data in the these datasets are from policies trained for the original dynamics and reward
                            functions HalfCheetah and Ant in OpenAI Gym [6] which incentivize the cheetach and ant to
                            moveforwardasfast as possible. Note that for HalfCheetah, we set the maximum velocity to be 3.
                            Concretely, we train SAC for 1M steps and use the entire training replay buffer as the trajectories for
                            the batch data. Then, we assign these trajectories with new rewards that incentivize the cheetach to
                            jumpandtheanttoruntowardsthetoprightcorner with a 30 degree angle. Thus, to achieve good
                            performance for the new reward functions, the policy need to leave the observational distribution, as
                            visualized in Figure 2. We include the exact forms of the new reward functions in Appendix G. In
                            these environments, learning the correct behaviors requires leaving the support of the data distribution;
                            optimizing solely within the data manifold will lead to sub-optimal policies.
                            In Table 2, we show that MOPO signiﬁcantly outperforms the state-of-the-art model-free approaches.
                            In particular, model-free ofﬂine RL cannot outperform the best trajectory in the batch dataset,
                            whereas MOPOexceedsthebatchmaxbyasigniﬁcantmargin. This validates that MOPO is able to
                            generalize to out-of-distribution behaviors while existing model-free methods are unable to solve
                            those challenges. Note that vanilla MBPO performs much better than SAC in the two environments,
                            consolidating our claim that vanilla model-based methods can attain better results than model-free
                            methods in the ofﬂine setting, especially where generalization to out-of-distribution is needed. The
                            visualization in Figure 2 suggests indeed the policy learned MOPO can effectively solve the tasks
                            byreaching to states unseen in the batch data. Furthermore, we test the limit of the generalization
                            abilities of MOPO in these environments and the results are included in Appendix E.
                                                                             8
                                    Figure 2: We visualize the two out-of-distribution generalization environments halfcheetah-jump (bottom
                                    row) and ant-angle (top row). We show the training environments that generate the batch data on the left. On
                                    the right, we show the test environments where the agents perform behaviors that require the learned policies to
                                    leave the data support. In halfcheetah-jump, the agent is asked to run while jumping as high as possible given
                                    an training ofﬂine dataset of halfcheetah running. In ant-angle, the ant is rewarded for running forward in a 30
                                    degree angle and the corresponding training ofﬂine dataset contains data of the ant running forward directly.
                                         Environment        Batch    Batch    MOPO(ours)           MBPO              SAC        BEAR         BRAC-p      BRAC-v
                                                            Mean      Max
                                         halfcheetah-jump  -1022.6   1808.6    4016.6±144    2971.4±1262     -3588.2±1436     16.8±60     1069.9±232      871±41
                                         ant-angle          866.7    2311.9    2530.9±137        13.6±66       -966.4±778   1658.2±16     1806.7±265    2333±139
                                    Table 2: Average returns halfcheetah-jump and ant-angle that require out-of-distribution policy. The
                                    MOPOresultsareaveragedover6randomseeds,±standarddeviation, while the results of other methods are
                                    averaged over 3 random seeds. We include the mean and max undiscounted return of the episodes in the batch
                                    data (under Batch Mean and Batch Max, respectively) for comparison. Note that Batch Mean and Max are
                                    signiﬁcantly lower than on-policy SAC, suggesting that the behaviors stored in the buffers are far from optimal
                                    and the agent needs to go beyond the data support in order to achieve better performance. As shown in the
                                    results, MOPO outperforms all the baselines by a large margin, indicating that MOPO is effective in generalizing
                                    to out-of-distribution states where model-free ofﬂine RL methods struggle.
                                    6     Conclusion
                                    In this paper, we studied model-based ofﬂine RL algorithms. We started with the observation
                                    that, in the ofﬂine setting, existing model-based methods signiﬁcantly outperform vanilla model-free
                                    methods,suggestingthatmodel-basedmethodsaremoreresilienttotheoverestimationandoverﬁtting
                                    issues that plague off-policy model-free RL algorithms. This phenomenon implies that model-based
                                    RL has the ability to generalize to states outside of the data support and such generalization is
                                    conducive for ofﬂine RL. However, online and ofﬂine algorithms must act differently when handling
                                    out-of-distribution states. Model error on out-of-distribution states that often drives exploration and
                                    corrective feedback in the online setting [37] can be detrimental when interaction is not allowed.
                                    Using theoretical principles, we develop an algorithm, model-based ofﬂine policy optimization
                                    (MOPO),whichmaximizesthepolicyonaMDPthatpenalizesstateswithhighmodeluncertainty.
                                    MOPOtradesofftheriskofmakingmistakesandthebeneﬁtofdiverseexplorationfromescapingthe
                                    behavioral distribution. In our experiments, MOPO outperforms state-of-the-art ofﬂine RL methods
                                    in both standard benchmarks [18] and out-of-distribution generalization environments.
                                    Ourworkopensupanumberofquestionsanddirections for future work. First, an interesting avenue
                                    for future research to incorporate the policy regularization ideas of BEAR and BRAC into the reward
                                    penalty framework to improve the performance of MOPO on narrow data distributions (such as
                                    the “medium” datasets in D4RL). Second, it’s an interesting theoretical question to understand why
                                    model-based methods appear to be much better suited to the batch setting than model-free methods.
                                    Multiple potential factors include a greater supervision from the states (instead of only the reward),
                                    morestable and less noisy supervised gradient updates, or ease of uncertainty estimation. Our work
                                    suggests that uncertainty estimation plays an important role, particularly in settings that demand
                                    generalization. However, uncertainty estimation does not explain the entire difference nor does
                                    it explain why model-free methods cannot also enjoy the beneﬁts of uncertainty estimation. For
                                    those domains where learning a model may be very difﬁcult due to complex dynamics, developing
                                    better model-free ofﬂine RL methods may be desirable or imperative. Hence, it is crucial to conduct
                                    future research on investigating how to bring model-free ofﬂine RL methods up to the level of
                                    the performance of model-based methods, which would require further understanding where the
                                    generalization beneﬁts come from.
                                                                                                    9
           BroaderImpact
           MOPOachievessigniﬁcant strides in ofﬂine reinforcement learning, a problem setting that is par-
           ticularly scalable to real-world settings. Ofﬂine reinforcement learning has a number of potential
           application domains, including autonomous driving, healthcare, robotics, and is notably amenable to
           safety-critical settings where online data collection is costly. For example, in autonomous driving,
           online interaction with the environment runs the risk of crashing and hurting people; ofﬂine RL
           methods can signiﬁcantly reduce that risk by learning from a pre-recorded driving dataset collected
           byasafebehavioral policy. Moreover, our work opens up the possibility of learning policies ofﬂine
           for new tasks for which we do not already have expert data.
           However, there are still risks associated with applying learned policies to high-risk domains. We
           have shown the beneﬁts of explicitly accounting for error, but without reliable out-of-distribution
           uncertainty estimation techniques, there is a possibility that the policy will behave unpredictably
           whengivenascenario it has not encountered. There is also the challenge of reward design: although
           the reward function will typically be under the engineer’s control, it can be difﬁcult to specify a
           reward function that elicits the desired behavior and is aligned with human objectives. Additionally,
           parametric models are known to be susceptible to adversarial attacks, and bad actors can potentially
           exploit this vulnerability. Advances in uncertainty quantiﬁcation, human-computer interaction, and
           robustness will improve our ability to apply learning-based methods in safety-critical domains.
           Supposing we succeed at producing safe and reliable policies, there is still possibility of negative
           societal impact. An increased ability to automate decision-making processes may reduce companies’
           demandforemployeesincertain industries (e.g. manufacturing and logistics), thereby affecting job
           availability. However, historically, advances in technology have also created new jobs that did not
           previously exist (e.g. software engineering), and it is unclear if the net impact on jobs will be positive
           or negative.
           Despitetheaforementionedrisksandchallenges,webelievethatofﬂineRLisapromisingsettingwith
           enormouspotential for automating and improving sequential decision-making in highly impactful
           domains. Currently, much additional work is needed to make ofﬂine RL sufﬁciently robust to be
           applied in safety-critical settings. We encourage the research community to pursue further study in
           uncertainty estimation, particularly considering the complications that arise in sequential decision
           problems.
           AcknowledgmentsandDisclosureofFunding
           WethankMichaelJannerforhelpwithMBPOandAviralKumarforsettingupBEARandD4RL.TY
           is partially supported by Intel Corporation. CF is a CIFAR Fellow in the Learning in Machines and
           Brains program. TM and GT are also partially supported by Lam Research, Google Faculty Award,
           SDSI, and SAIL.
           References
            [1] Rishabh Agarwal, Dale Schuurmans, and Mohammad Norouzi. Striving for simplicity in
              off-policy deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.04543, 2019.
            [2] Andrzej Banaszuk, Vladimir A Fonoberov, Thomas A Frewen, Marin Kobilarov, George
              Mathew, Igor Mezic, Alessandro Pinto, Tuhin Sahai, Harshad Sane, Alberto Speranzon, et al.
              Scalable approach to uncertainty quantiﬁcation and robust design of interconnected dynamical
              systems. Annual Reviews in Control, 35(1):77–98, 2011.
            [3] Andrew G Barto, Richard S Sutton, and Charles W Anderson. Neuronlike adaptive elements
              that can solve difﬁcult learning control problems. IEEE transactions on systems, man, and
              cybernetics, (5):834–846, 1983.
            [4] EmmanuelBengio,JoellePineau,andDoinaPrecup. Interferenceandgeneralizationintemporal
              difference learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.06350, 2020.
            [5] Peter J Bickel and David A Freedman. Some asymptotic theory for the bootstrap. The annals of
              statistics, pages 1196–1217, 1981.
                               10
            [6] Greg Brockman, Vicki Cheung, Ludwig Pettersson, Jonas Schneider, John Schulman, Jie Tang,
              and Wojciech Zaremba. Openai gym. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.01540, 2016.
            [7] Kurtland Chua, Roberto Calandra, Rowan McAllister, and Sergey Levine. Deep reinforcement
              learning in a handful of trials using probabilistic dynamics models. In Advances in Neural
              Information Processing Systems, pages 4754–4765, 2018.
            [8] Ignasi Clavera, Jonas Rothfuss, John Schulman, Yasuhiro Fujita, Tamim Asfour, and Pieter
              Abbeel. Model-based reinforcement learning via meta-policy optimization. arXiv preprint
              arXiv:1809.05214, 2018.
            [9] Karl Cobbe, Oleg Klimov, Chris Hesse, Taehoon Kim, and John Schulman. Quantifying
              generalization in reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.02341, 2018.
           [10] SudeepDasari,FrederikEbert,StephenTian,SurajNair,BernadetteBucher,KarlSchmeckpeper,
              Siddharth Singh, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Robonet: Large-scale multi-robot learning.
              arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.11215, 2019.
           [11] Thomas Degris, Martha White, and Richard S Sutton. Off-policy actor-critic. arXiv preprint
              arXiv:1205.4839, 2012.
           [12] Marc Deisenroth and Carl E Rasmussen. Pilco: A model-based and data-efﬁcient approach
              to policy search. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on machine learning
              (ICML-11), pages 465–472, 2011.
           [13] Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-
              scale hierarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
              recognition, pages 248–255. Ieee, 2009.
           [14] Stefan Depeweg, José Miguel Hernández-Lobato, Finale Doshi-Velez, and Steffen Udluft.
              Learning and policy search in stochastic dynamical systems with bayesian neural networks.
              arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.07127, 2016.
           [15] Andreas Draeger, Sebastian Engell, and Horst Ranke. Model predictive control using neural
              networks. IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 15(5):61–66, 1995.
           [16] Frederik Ebert, Chelsea Finn, Sudeep Dasari, Annie Xie, Alex Lee, and Sergey Levine. Visual
              foresight: Model-based deep reinforcement learning for vision-based robotic control. arXiv
              preprint arXiv:1812.00568, 2018.
           [17] Chelsea Finn and Sergey Levine. Deep visual foresight for planning robot motion. In 2017
              IEEEInternational Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 2786–2793. IEEE,
              2017.
           [18] Justin Fu, Aviral Kumar, Oﬁr Nachum, George Tucker, and Sergey Levine. D4rl: Datasets for
              deep data-driven reinforcement learning, 2020.
           [19] Scott Fujimoto, David Meger, and Doina Precup. Off-policy deep reinforcement learning
              without exploration. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.02900, 2018.
           [20] Scott Fujimoto, Herke Van Hoof, and David Meger. Addressing function approximation error
              in actor-critic methods. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.09477, 2018.
           [21] Yarin Gal, Rowan McAllister, and Carl Edward Rasmussen. Improving pilco with bayesian
              neural network dynamics models. In Data-Efﬁcient Machine Learning workshop, ICML,
              volume 4, page 34, 2016.
           [22] Omer Gottesman, Fredrik Johansson, Matthieu Komorowski, Aldo Faisal, David Sontag, Finale
              Doshi-Velez, and Leo Anthony Celi. Guidelines for reinforcement learning in healthcare. Nat
              Med,25(1):16–18, 2019.
           [23] Arthur Gretton, Karsten M. Borgwardt, Malte Rasch, Bernhard Scholköpf, and Alexander J.
              Smola. A kernel approach to comparing distributions. In Proceedings of the 22nd National
              Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence - Volume 2, AAAI’07, page 1637–1641. AAAI Press, 2007.
              ISBN9781577353232.
           [24] Shixiang Gu, Timothy Lillicrap, Zoubin Ghahramani, Richard E Turner, and Sergey
              Levine. Q-prop: Sample-efﬁcient policy gradient with an off-policy critic. arXiv preprint
              arXiv:1611.02247, 2016.
                               11
           [25] Shixiang Shane Gu, Timothy Lillicrap, Richard E Turner, Zoubin Ghahramani, Bernhard
              Schölkopf, and Sergey Levine. Interpolated policy gradient: Merging on-policy and off-
              policy gradient estimation for deep reinforcement learning. In Advances in neural information
              processing systems, pages 3846–3855, 2017.
           [26] David Ha and Jürgen Schmidhuber. World models. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.10122, 2018.
           [27] Tuomas Haarnoja, Aurick Zhou, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine. Soft actor-critic: Off-
              policy maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning with a stochastic actor. arXiv preprint
              arXiv:1801.01290, 2018.
           [28] G Zacharias Holland, Erin J Talvitie, and Michael Bowling. The effect of planning shape on
              dyna-style planning in high-dimensional state spaces. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.01825, 2018.
           [29] Michael Janner, Justin Fu, Marvin Zhang, and Sergey Levine. When to trust your model:
              Model-based policy optimization. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
              pages 12498–12509, 2019.
           [30] Natasha Jaques, Asma Ghandeharioun, Judy Hanwen Shen, Craig Ferguson, Agata Lapedriza,
              Noah Jones, Shixiang Gu, and Rosalind Picard. Way off-policy batch deep reinforcement
              learning of implicit human preferences in dialog. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.00456, 2019.
           [31] Nan Jiang and Lihong Li. Doubly robust off-policy value evaluation for reinforcement learning.
              arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.03722, 2015.
           [32] Lukasz Kaiser, MohammadBabaeizadeh, Piotr Milos, Blazej Osinski, Roy H Campbell, Konrad
              Czechowski,DumitruErhan,ChelseaFinn,PiotrKozakowski,SergeyLevine,AfrozMohiuddin,
              RyanSepassi, George Tucker, and Henryk Michalewski. Model-based reinforcement learning
              for atari, 2019.
           [33] Rahul Kidambi, Aravind Rajeswaran, Praneeth Netrapalli, and Thorsten Joachims. Morel:
              Model-based ofﬂine reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.05951, 2020.
           [34] Kwang-Ki K Kim, Dongying Erin Shen, Zoltan K Nagy, and Richard D Braatz. Wiener’s
              polynomial chaos for the analysis and control of nonlinear dynamical systems with probabilistic
              uncertainties [historical perspectives]. IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 33(5):58–67, 2013.
           [35] Volodymyr Kuleshov, Nathan Fenner, and Stefano Ermon. Accurate uncertainties for deep
              learning using calibrated regression. arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.00263, 2018.
           [36] AviralKumar,JustinFu,MatthewSoh,GeorgeTucker,andSergeyLevine. Stabilizingoff-policy
              q-learning via bootstrapping error reduction. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
              Systems, pages 11761–11771, 2019.
           [37] Aviral Kumar, Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine. Discor: Corrective feedback in reinforce-
              mentlearning via distribution correction. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.07305, 2020.
           [38] Vikash Kumar, Emanuel Todorov, and Sergey Levine. Optimal control with learned local
              models: Application to dexterous manipulation. In 2016 IEEE International Conference on
              Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 378–383. IEEE, 2016.
           [39] Thanard Kurutach, Ignasi Clavera, Yan Duan, Aviv Tamar, and Pieter Abbeel. Model-ensemble
              trust-region policy optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.10592, 2018.
           [40] Balaji Lakshminarayanan, Alexander Pritzel, and Charles Blundell. Simple and scalable
              predictive uncertainty estimation using deep ensembles. In Advances in neural information
              processing systems, pages 6402–6413, 2017.
           [41] Sascha Lange, Thomas Gabel, and Martin Riedmiller. Batch reinforcement learning. In
              Reinforcement learning, pages 45–73. Springer, 2012.
           [42] Sergey Levine and Vladlen Koltun. Guided policy search. In International Conference on
              Machine Learning, pages 1–9, 2013.
           [43] Timothy P Lillicrap, Jonathan J Hunt, Alexander Pritzel, Nicolas Heess, Tom Erez, Yuval Tassa,
              David Silver, and Daan Wierstra. Continuous control with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv
              preprint arXiv:1509.02971, 2015.
           [44] Yuping Luo, Huazhe Xu, Yuanzhi Li, Yuandong Tian, Trevor Darrell, and Tengyu Ma. Algo-
              rithmic framework for model-based deep reinforcement learning with theoretical guarantees.
              arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03858, 2018.
                               12
           [45] TakeruMiyato,ToshikiKataoka,MasanoriKoyama,andYuichiYoshida. Spectralnormalization
              for generative adversarial networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.05957, 2018.
           [46] Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Timothy Lilli-
              crap, Tim Harley, David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. Asynchronous methods for deep
              reinforcement learning. In International conference on machine learning, pages 1928–1937,
              2016.
           [47] Alfred Müller. Integral probability metrics and their generating classes of functions. Advances
              in Applied Probability, 29(2):429–443, 1997.
           [48] Rémi Munos, Tom Stepleton, Anna Harutyunyan, and Marc Bellemare. Safe and efﬁcient
              off-policy reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
              pages 1054–1062, 2016.
           [49] Oﬁr Nachum, Bo Dai, Ilya Kostrikov, Yinlam Chow, Lihong Li, and Dale Schuurmans. Al-
              gaedice: Policy gradient from arbitrary experience. arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.02074, 2019.
           [50] Anusha Nagabandi, Kurt Konoglie, Sergey Levine, and Vikash Kumar. Deep dynamics models
              for learning dexterous manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.11652, 2019.
           [51] Junhyuk Oh, Satinder Singh, and Honglak Lee. Value prediction network. In Advances in
              Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 6118–6128, 2017.
           [52] XueBinPeng,AviralKumar,GraceZhang,andSergeyLevine. Advantage-weightedregression:
              Simple and scalable off-policy reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.00177, 2019.
           [53] Doina Precup, Richard S Sutton, and Sanjoy Dasgupta. Off-policy temporal-difference learning
              with function approximation. In ICML, pages 417–424, 2001.
           [54] Sébastien Racanière, Théophane Weber, David Reichert, Lars Buesing, Arthur Guez,
              Danilo Jimenez Rezende, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Oriol Vinyals, Nicolas Heess, Yujia Li,
              et al. Imagination-augmented agents for deep reinforcement learning. In Advances in neural
              information processing systems, pages 5690–5701, 2017.
           [55] PranavRajpurkar,JianZhang,KonstantinLopyrev,andPercyLiang. Squad: 100,000+questions
              for machine comprehension of text. arXiv preprint arXiv:1606.05250, 2016.
           [56] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael Jordan, and Philipp Moritz. Trust region
              policy optimization. In International conference on machine learning, pages 1889–1897, 2015.
           [57] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal
              policy optimization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
           [58] Noah Y Siegel, Jost Tobias Springenberg, Felix Berkenkamp, Abbas Abdolmaleki, Michael
              Neunert, Thomas Lampe, Roland Hafner, and Martin Riedmiller. Keep doing what worked:
              Behavioralmodellingpriorsforofﬂinereinforcementlearning. arXivpreprintarXiv:2002.08396,
              2020.
           [59] David Silver, Hado van Hasselt, Matteo Hessel, Tom Schaul, Arthur Guez, Tim Harley, Gabriel
              Dulac-Arnold, David Reichert, Neil Rabinowitz, Andre Barreto, et al. The predictron: End-to-
              end learning and planning. In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Machine
              Learning-Volume 70, pages 3191–3199. JMLR. org, 2017.
           [60] Jasper Snoek, Yaniv Ovadia, Emily Fertig, Balaji Lakshminarayanan, Sebastian Nowozin,
              DSculley, Joshua Dillon, Jie Ren, and Zachary Nado. Can you trust your model’s uncertainty?
              evaluating predictive uncertainty under dataset shift. In Advances in Neural Information
              Processing Systems, pages 13969–13980, 2019.
           [61] Bharath K Sriperumbudur, Kenji Fukumizu, Arthur Gretton, Bernhard Schölkopf, and Gert RG
              Lanckriet. On integral probability metrics,\phi-divergences and binary classiﬁcation. arXiv
              preprint arXiv:0901.2698, 2009.
           [62] Robert F Stengel. Optimal control and estimation. Courier Corporation, 1994.
           [63] Alexander L Strehl and Michael L Littman. An analysis of model-based interval estimation for
              markov decision processes. Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 74(8):1309–1331, 2008.
           [64] Richard S Sutton. Dyna, an integrated architecture for learning, planning, and reacting. ACM
              Sigart Bulletin, 2(4):160–163, 1991.
           [65] Richard S Sutton and Andrew G Barto. Reinforcement learning, 1998.
                               13
           [66] Richard S Sutton, Csaba Szepesvári, Alborz Geramifard, and Michael P Bowling. Dyna-
              style planning with linear function approximation and prioritized sweeping. arXiv preprint
              arXiv:1206.3285, 2012.
           [67] AvivTamar,YiWu,GarrettThomas,SergeyLevine,andPieterAbbeel. Valueiterationnetworks.
              In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 2154–2162, 2016.
           [68] Philip S Thomas. Safe reinforcement learning. PhD thesis, University of Massachusetts
              Libraries, 2015.
           [69] Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. Mujoco: A physics engine for model-based
              control. In 2012 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, pages
              5026–5033. IEEE, 2012.
           [70] Tingwu Wang and Jimmy Ba. Exploring model-based planning with policy networks. arXiv
              preprint arXiv:1906.08649, 2019.
           [71] Tingwu Wang, Xuchan Bao, Ignasi Clavera, Jerrick Hoang, Yeming Wen, Eric Langlois,
              Shunshi Zhang, Guodong Zhang, Pieter Abbeel, and Jimmy Ba. Benchmarking model-based
              reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.02057, 2019.
           [72] Yifan Wu, George Tucker, and Oﬁr Nachum. Behavior regularized ofﬂine reinforcement
              learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.11361, 2019.
           [73] Hengshuai Yao, Shalabh Bhatnagar, Dongcui Diao, Richard S Sutton, and Csaba Szepesvári.
              Multi-step dyna planning for policy evaluation and control. In Advances in neural information
              processing systems, pages 2187–2195, 2009.
           [74] Fisher Yu, Wenqi Xian, Yingying Chen, Fangchen Liu, Mike Liao, Vashisht Madhavan, and
              Trevor Darrell. Bdd100k: A diverse driving video database with scalable annotation tooling.
              arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.04687, 2018.
           [75] AndreaZanetteandEmmaBrunskill. Tighterproblem-dependentregretboundsinreinforcement
              learning without domain knowledge using value function bounds.
           [76] AmyZhang,Nicolas Ballas, and Joelle Pineau. A dissection of overﬁtting and generalization in
              continuous reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.07937, 2018.
                               14
                             Appendix
                             A Remindersaboutintegralprobabilitymetrics
                             Let (X,Σ) be a measurable space. The integral probability metric associated with a class F of
                             (measurable) real-valued functions on X is deﬁned as
                                                                                                                    
                                                            Z           Z
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                         d (P,Q)= sup           f dP −      f dQ = sup       E [f(X)]− E [f(Y)]
                                          F                                                                         
                                                      f∈F    X            X           f∈F X∼P              Y∼Q
                             where P and Q are probability measures on X. We note the following special cases:
                                  (i) If F = {f : kfk     ≤1},thend isthetotalvariation distance
                                                       ∞               F
                                                            d (P,Q)=D (P,Q):= sup|P(A)−Q(A)|
                                                             F              TV           A∈Σ
                                  (ii) If F is the set of 1-Lipschitz function w.r.t. to some cost function (metric) c on X, then dF
                                      is the 1-Wasserstein distance w.r.t. the same metric: Z
                                                       d (P,Q)=W (P,Q):=               inf        c(x,y)dγ(x,y)
                                                         F              1           γ∈Γ(P,Q) X2
                                      where Γ(P,Q) denotes the set of all couplings of P and Q, i.e. joint distributions on X2
                                      which have marginals P and Q.
                                 (iii) If F = {f : kfk    ≤1}whereHisareproducingkernelHilbertspacewithkernel k, then
                                                       H
                                      d isthemaximummeandiscrepancy:
                                       F                                     p
                                              dF(P,Q)=MMD(P,Q):= E[k(X,X0)]−2E[k(X,Y)]+E[k(Y,Y0)]
                                      where X,X0 ∼ P and Y,Y0 ∼ Q.
                             In the context of Section 4.1, we have (at least) the following instantiations of Assumption 4.2:
                                  (i) Assume the reward is bounded by r        . Then (since kV πk     ≤ rmax)
                                                                           max                  M ∞       1−γ
                                                                  π            rmax       b
                                                               |Gc(s,a)| ≤           DTV(T(s,a),T(s,a))
                                                                  M           1−γ
                                      This corresponds to c = rmax and F = {f : kfk         ≤1}.
                                                                1−γ                      ∞
                                  (ii) Assume V π is Lv-Lipschitz. Then
                                                 M
                                                                    π                   b
                                                                 |G (s,a)| ≤ L W (T(s,a),T(s,a))
                                                                    c             v   1
                                                                    M
                                      This corresponds to c = Lv and F = {f : f is 1-Lipschitz}.
                                 (iii) Assume kV πk     ≤ν.Then
                                                  M H
                                                                   π                     b
                                                                |Gc(s,a)| ≤ νMMD(T(s,a),T(s,a))
                                                                   M
                                      This corresponds to c = ν and F = {f : kfkH ≤ 1}.
                             B Proofs
                             WeprovideaproofforLemma4.1forcompleteness. Theproofisessentially the same as that for [44,
                             Lemma4.3].
                                                                                            b
                             Proof. Let Wj be the expected return when executing π on T for the ﬁrst j steps, then switching to
                             T for the remainder. That is,
                                                                                    " ∞              #
                                                           W =            E          Xγtr(s ,a )
                                                             j        a ∼π(s )                 t   t
                                                                       t     t       t=0
                                                                            b
                                                                  t<j:s   ∼T(s ,a )
                                                                       t+1     t  t
                                                                  t≥j:s   ∼T(s ,a )
                                                                       t+1     t  t
                                                                               15
                             Note that W = η (π) and W          =η (π),so
                                         0     M             ∞      c
                                                                    M
                                                                                   ∞
                                                                                  X
                                                             η (π)−η (π)=            (W      −W)
                                                              c         M                j+1      j
                                                              M
                                                                                  j=0
                             Write
                                                                                             j+1 π          
                                                     W =R +           E             E      [γ    V (s      )]
                                                        j     j            b s    ∼T(s ,a )        M j+1
                                                                  s ,a ∼π,T    j+1     t  t
                                                                   j  j      "                               #
                                                  W =R + E                          E      [γj+1Vπ(s       )]
                                                     j+1      j            b        b              M j+1
                                                                  s ,a ∼π,T   s   ∼T(s ,a )
                                                                   j  j        j+1     t  t
                                                                                                                         b
                             where Rj is the expected return of the ﬁrst j time steps, which are taken with respect to T. Then
                                                           j+1           "              π   0                   π   0 #
                                         Wj+1−Wj =γ                E       0   E      [VM(s )]− 0      E     [VM(s )]
                                                                       b      b                   s ∼T(s ,a )
                                                               s ,a ∼π,T  s ∼T(s ,a )                    j j
                                                                j j      h       j  j i
                                                           j+1              π
                                                       =γ          E      G (s ,a )
                                                                            c j j
                                                                       b    M
                                                               s ,a ∼π,T
                                                                j j
                             Thus
                                                                           ∞
                                                                          X
                                                     η (π)−η (π)=             (W     −W)
                                                      c         M                j+1      j
                                                      M
                                                                          j=0
                                                                           ∞                 h             i
                                                                          X j+1                  π
                                                                       =      γ        E       G (s ,a )
                                                                                                 c j j
                                                                                            b    M
                                                                                   s ,a ∼π,T
                                                                          j=0       j  j
                                                                               ¯    h π         i
                                                                       =γ E           Gc(s,a)
                                                                                  π     M
                                                                           (s,a)∼ρb
                                                                                  T
                             as claimed.
                             NowweproveTheorem4.2.
                             Proof. We ﬁrst note that a two-sided bound follows from Lemma 4.1:
                                                                     ¯       π                 ¯
                                          |η  (π)−η (π)|≤γ           E |G (s,a)|≤λ            E [u(s,a)] = λ (π)               (12)
                                            c         M                      c                                    u
                                            M                            π   M                    π
                                                                  (s,a)∼ρb                 (s,a)∼ρb
                                                                         T                        T
                             Thenwehave,foranypolicyπ,
                                                                  η (πˆ) ≥ η (πˆ)                                           (by (7))
                                                                   M          f
                                                                              M
                                                                         ≥ηf(π)                                 (by deﬁnition of πˆ)
                                                                              M
                                                                         =ηc(π)−λu(π)
                                                                              M
                                                                         ≥ηM(π)−2λu(π)                                    (by (12))
                             C MOPOPracticalAlgorithmOutline
                             Weoutline the practical MOPO algorithm in Algorithm 2.
                             D AblationStudy
                             To answer question (3), we conduct a thorough ablation study on MOPO. The main goal of the
                             ablation study is to understand how the choice of reward penalty affects performance. We denote
                             no ens. as a method without model ensembles, ens. pen. as a method that uses model ensemble
                             disagreement as the reward penalty, no pen. as a method without reward penalty, and true pen. as
                                                                               16
                                        Algorithm 2 MOPOinstantiation with regularized probabilistic dynamics and ensemble uncertainty
                                        Require: reward penalty coefﬁcient λ rollout horizon h, rollout batch size b.
                                                                                                                                                               bi    0
                                         1: Train on batch data D                        an ensemble of N probabilistic dynamics {T (s ,r|s,a)                                        =
                                                                                  env
                                                    i           i           N
                                             N(µ (s,a),Σ (s,a))}                 .
                                                                            i=1
                                         2: Initialize policy π and empty replay buffer D                      ←∅.
                                                                                                        model
                                         3: for epoch 1,2,... do                                            .Thisfor-loop is essentially one outer iteration of MBPO
                                         4:       for 1,2,...,b (in parallel) do
                                         5:            Samplestate s from D               for the initialization of the rollout.
                                                                          1           env
                                         6:            for j = 1,2,...,h do
                                         7:                 Sampleanaction a ∼ π(s ).
                                                                                     j          j
                                                                                               b           bi N                                     b
                                         8:                 RandomlypickdynamicsT from{T }                           and sample s          , r  ∼T(s ,a ).
                                                                                                                i=1                   j+1     j          j    j
                                         9:                 Computer˜ = r −λmaxN kΣi(s ,a )k .
                                                                          j       j            i=1          j    j   F
                                        10:                 Addsample(s ,a ,r˜ ,s                 ) to D        .
                                                                                j   j    j   j+1          model
                                        11:        Drawing samples from D               ∪D         , use SAC to update π.
                                                                                    env      model
                                                                                                                  b
                                        a method using the true model prediction error kT(s,a) − T(s,a)k as the reward penalty. Note
                                        that we include true pen. to indicate the upper bound of our approach. Also, note that no ens.
                                        measures disagreement among the ensemble: precisely, if the models’ mean predictions are denoted
                                                                                                           P
                                        µ ,...,µ ,wecomputetheaverageµ¯ = 1/N                                  N µ andthentakemax kµ −µ¯kastheensemble
                                          1           N                                                        i=1 i                               i     i
                                        penalty.
                                        Theresults of our study are shown in Table 3. For different reward penalty types, reward penalties
                                        based on learned variance perform comparably to those based on ensemble disagreement in D4RL
                                        environments while outperforming those based on ensemble disagreement in out-of-distribution
                                        domains. Both reward penalties achieve signiﬁcantly better performances than no reward penalty,
                                        indicating that it is imperative to consider model uncertainty in batch model-based RL. Methods
                                        that uses oracle uncertainty obtain slightly better performance than most of our methods. Note that
                                        MOPOevenattainsthebestresultsonhalfcheetah-jump. Suchresultssuggestthatouruncertainty
                                        quantiﬁcation on states is empirically successful, since there is only a small gap. We believe future
                                        workonimprovinguncertainty estimation may be able to bridge this gap further. Note that we do
                                        not report the results of methods with oracle uncertainty on walker2d-mixed and ant-angle as
                                        wearenotabletogetthetrue model error from the simulator based on the pre-recorded dataset.
                                        In general, we ﬁnd that performance differences are much larger for halfcheetah-jump and
                                        ant-angle than the D4RL halfcheetah-mixed and walker2d-mixed datasets, likely because
                                        halfcheetah-jumpandant-anglerequiresgreatergeneralizationandhenceplacesmoredemands
                                        onthe accuracy of the model and uncertainty estimate.
                                        Finally, we perform another ablation study on the choice of the reward penalty. We consider the
                                                                  P
                                          mean                1      N         i
                                        u       (s,a) =                    kΣ (s,a)kF, the average standard deviation of the learned models in the
                                                              N      i=1       φ
                                        ensemble, as the reward penalty instead of the max standard deviation as used in MOPO. We denote
                                        the variant of MOPO with the average learned standard deviation as MOPO, avg. var.. We compare
                                        MOPOtoMOPO,avg.var. inthehalfcheetah-jumpdomain. MOPOachieves4140.6±88average
                                        return while MOPO, avg. var. achieves 4166.3±228.8 where the results are averaged over 3 random
                                        seeds. The two methods did similarly, suggesting that using either mean variance or max variance
                                        would be a reasonable choice for penalizing uncertainty.
                                        E Empiricalresultsongeneralization capabilities
                                        Weconductexperiments in ant-angle to show the limit of MOPO’s generalization capabilties. As
                                        showninTable4,weshowthatMOPOgeneralizestoAntrunningata45◦ angle(achievingalmost
                                                                                         ◦                                                                                            ◦
                                        buffer max score), beyond the 30 shown in the paper, while failing to generalize to a 60 and 90
                                        degree angle. This suggests that if the new task requires to explore states that are completely out of
                                        the data support, i.e. the buffer max and buffer mean both fairly bad, MOPO is unable to generalize.
                                                                                                              17
                                 Method              halfcheetah-mixed   walker2d-mixed     halfcheetah-jump        ant-angle
                                 MOPO                      6405.8±35       1916.4±611          4016.6±144      2530.9±137
                                 MOPO,ens. pen.          6448.7±115        1923.6±752          3577.3±461      2256.0±288
                                 MOPO,nopen.             6409.1±429        1421.2±359        −980.8±5625           18.6±49
                                 MBPO                   5598.4±1285        1021.8±586        2971.4±1262           13.6±65
                                 MBPO,noens.             2247.2±581           500.3±34        −68.7±1936       −720.1±728
                                 MOPO,truepen.           6984.0±148                 N/A        3818.6±136               N/A
                            Table 3: Ablation study on two D4RL tasks halfcheetah-mixed and walker2d-mixed and two out-of-
                            distribution tasks halfcheetah-jump and ant-angle. We use average returns where the results of MOPO
                            and its variants are averaged over 6 random seeds and MBPO results are averaged over 3 random seeds as in
                            Table 2. We observe that different reward penalties can all lead to substantial improvement of the performance
                            and reward penalty based on learned variance is a better choice than that based on ensemble disagreement in
                            out-of-distribution cases. Methods that use oracle uncertainty as the reward penalty achieve marginally better
                            performance than MOPO, implying that MOPO is effective at estimating the uncertainty.
                                                 Environment      Buffer Max    Buffer Mean        MOPO
                                                ant-angle-45        3168.7         1105.5       2571.3±598.1
                                                ant-angle-60        1953.7          846.7       840.5±1103.7
                                                ant-angle-90         838.8          -901.6      -503.2±803.4
                                                        Table 4: Limit of generalization on ant-angle.
                            F ExperimentsonHIVdomains
                            Beyondcontinous control tasks in MuJoCo, we test MOPO on an HIV treatment simulator slightly
                            modiﬁedfromtheoneinthewhynotpackage. Thetasksimulates the sequential decision making in
                            HIVtreatment, which involves determining the amounts of two anti-HIV drugs to be administered to
                            the patient in order to maximize the immune response and minimize the amount of virus. The agent
                            observes both of those quantities as well as the (log) number of infected and uninfected T cells and
                            macrophages.
                            WeevaluatedMOPOwiththedatageneratedfromtheﬁrst200kstepsoftraininganonlineSACagent
                            on this environment. We show results in Table 5, where MOPO outperforms BEAR and achieves
                            almost the buffer max score.
                                    Buffer Max    Buffer Mean      SAC(online)           BEAR                MOPO
                                      15986.2        6747.2       25716.3±254.3      11709.1±1292.1     13484.6±3900.7
                                                  Table 5: HIV treatment results, averaged over 3 random seeds.
                            G ExperimentDetails
                            G.1 Details of out-of-distribution environments
                            For halfcheetah-jump, the reward function that we use to train the behavioral policy is r(s,a) =
                            max{v ,3}−0.1∗kak2 wherev denotesthevelocityalongthex-axis. After collecting the ofﬂine
                                   x                 2         x
                                                                                                             2
                            dataset, we relabel the reward function to r(s,a) = max{vx,3} − 0.1 ∗ kak + 15 ∗ (z − init z)
                                                                                                             2
                            where z denotes the z-position of the half-cheetah and init z denotes the initial z-position.
                            For ant-angle, the reward function that we use to train the behavioral policy is r(s,a) = v −
                                                                                                                              x
                            control cost. After collecting the ofﬂine dataset, we relabel the reward function to r(s,a) = v ·
                                                                                                                               x
                            cos π +v ·sin π −control cost where v , v denote the velocity along the x,y-axis respectively.
                                6     y      6                         x  y
                            For both out-of-distribution environments, instead of sampling actions from the learned policy during
                            the model rollout (line 10 in Algorithm 2), we sample random actions from Unif[−1,1], which
                            achieves better performance empirically. One potential reason is that using random actions during
                            model rollouts leads to better exploration of the OOD states.
                                                                              18
                                                  Dataset type  Environment     MOPO(h,λ)       MBPOh
                                                  random        halfcheetah         5, 0.5         5
                                                  random        hopper               5, 1          5
                                                  random        walker2d             1, 1          5
                                                  medium        halfcheetah          1, 1          5
                                                  medium        hopper               5, 5          5
                                                  medium        walker2d             5, 5          5
                                                  mixed         halfcheetah          5, 1          5
                                                  mixed         hopper               5, 1          5
                                                  mixed         walker2d             1, 1          1
                                                  med-expert    halfcheetah          5, 1          5
                                                  med-expert    hopper               5, 1          5
                                                  med-expert    walker2d             1, 2          1
                                                   Table 6: Hyperparameters used in the D4RL datasets.
                            G.2 Hyperparameters
                            Here we list the hyperparameters used in the experiments.
                            For the D4RL datasets, the rollout length h and penalty coefﬁcient λ are given in Table 6. We
                                                       2
                            search over (h,λ) ∈ {1,5} and report the best ﬁnal performance, averaged over 3 seeds. The only
                            exceptions are halfcheetah-random and walker2d-medium-expert, where other penalty coefﬁcients
                            were found to work better.
                            For the out-of-generalization tasks, we use rollout length 5 for halfcheetah-jump and 25 for
                            ant-angle, and penalty coefﬁcient 1 for halfcheetah-jump and 2 for ant-angle.
                            Across all domains, we train an ensemble of 7 models and pick the best 5 models based on their
                            prediction error on a hold-out set of 1000 transitions in the ofﬂine dataset. Each of the model in the
                            ensemble is parametrized as a 4-layer feedforward neural network with 200 hidden units and after the
                            last hidden layer, the model outputs the mean and variance using a two-head architecture. Spectral
                            normalization [45] is applied to all layers except the head that outputs the model variance.
                            For the SAC updates, we sample a batch of 256 transitions, 5% of them from Denv and the rest of
                            them from Dmodel. We also perform ablation studies on the percentage of the real data in a batch for
                            MOPO.Forsimplicity, we use MBPO, which essentially MOPO without reward penalty, for this
                            ablation study. We tried to train MBPO with data all sampled from D          and no data from D
                                                                                                    model                     env
                            and compare the performance to MBPO with 5% of data from D           onall 12 settings in the D4RL
                                                                                              env
                            benchmark. We ﬁnd that the performances of both methods are not signiﬁcantly distinct: no-real-data
                            MBPOoutperforms5%-real-data MBPOon6outof12tasksandlieswithinoneSDof5%-real-data
                            MBPOon9outof12tasks.
                                                                             19
